# Surf's Up for A Challenge

## Intro
For this Challenge, we've been augmenting our Python knowledge with SQLalchemy and, by extension, SQlite databases. This is especially key for our colleague W. Avy, who wants to learn more about Oahu's climate in June and December before setting up a surf and ice cream shop on the Hawaiian island ("Module 9 Challenge"). With our SQLalchemy tools and an SQlite database on Hawaii weather, we can help show W. Avy whether his shop idea is viable or not.

## June Results
With the use of SQLalchemy's extract function, obtaining the relevant June data has been relatively seamless. For the month of June, sifting through 1700 entries, we find that the mean temperature on any given day is about **75 degrees Fahrenheit**. Between each of the three quartiles, the **2 degrees difference** lies within the standard deviation figure of about **3.257 degrees**, which shows promising signs of a reasonably stable June climate for Oahu. With a max recorded temp of **85 degrees**, we can expect that a June day in Oahu may get a bit hot if not ambient, which is good news for vacationers and Oahu residents to go out surfing or buy ice cream to cool off. Still, with a min recorded temp of **64 degrees**, we must also expect days that aren't necessarily the best for going out to surf and/or buy ice cream in droves. This is especially because **64 degrees** is within 3 standard deviations of the **75 mean** degrees. Assuming the temperature data is normally distributed, a cool temperature of **64 degrees** is within range for Oahu June climate and not just a one-off outlier. Overall, though, June in Oahu is still the right amount of summer warm to attract tourists to the beaches and potential customers to W. Avy's surf and ice cream shop.

## December Results
As with the June results, we specify SQLalchemy's extract function for the month of December to seamlessly obtain our relevant data. From 1517 entries of temp data, we find that the mean temperature on a given December day is about **71 degrees Fahrenheit**, which is a bit cooler than an average June day. Within the interquartile range, the temperature varies between **69 degrees** and **74 degrees**, and the **2-3 degree interquartile differences** do lie within a standard deviation figure of about **3.75 degrees**. The max recorded temp of **83 degrees** lends further support to an Oahu December being the right amount of warm for surfing and ice cream feasting. That being said, the min recorded temp of 56 degrees does raise a concern. Assuming our data is normally distributed, being **15 degrees off the mean – and still within 3 standard deviations of the mean** – hints that such a cool temperature isn't outlandish on a given Oahu December day. Moreover, the slightly higher standard deviation figure (**3.75 as opposed to 3.257**) implies that Oahu temperatures are a bit more fickle in December and a bit more prone to being less desirable to W. Avy's target beachgoing audience. Compared to June, December is only slightly less ideal for surfing and cooling off with ice cream.

## Conclusions and Other Areas of Concern
Through our findings, we do find that Oahu is a great venue temperature-wise to host W. Avy's surfing and ice cream business. With temperatures usually staying within the 70s, Oahu hits a nice range that is warm enough for tourists to enjoy the weather while also cool enough that the heat is bearing down on Oahu. Moreover, Oahu's hotter spells in the mid-80s are ideal for those wanting a fairly hot summer vibe. While Oahu's cooler spells around the 60 degree mark is a possible turnoff for beachgoers, it may not be all bad news as having hot weather for consecutive days or longer can be too exhausting for both vacationers and Oahu residents. Let us not forget, too, that there are snowbirds who come to warmer regions like Oahu, Hawaii during the winter months, and their demand for ice cream may be a welcome boost of demand for W. Avy's business. All that said, this analysis **does not consider other climate factors for Oahu, like wind or precipitation**, especially since very stormy weather can shut down beachgoing businesses for a time. Lastly, the analysis **does not factor in other disruptions in the tourist industry**, such as a global pandemic that warrants a quarantine, thereby shutting down the steady flow of tourists coming into vacation spots like Oahu, Hawaii. We encourage W. Avy to consult Oahu's climate beyond temperatures as well as prepare for events that shock the beach tourist industry. Otherwise, we greenlight W. Avy's surfing and ice cream shop in Oahu, Hawaii.
